Narrator: IT SEEMS
EVERYWHERE WE LOOK,
WE SEE WAR, DISEASE,
TERROR, AND DEATH.
WE SEE OPPRESSION,
DIVISION, AND VIOLENCE.
WE SEE PAIN.
YET THERE IS SOMETHING ELSE
THAT IS ALSO HAPPENING
ALL AROUND US.
95% OF US BELIEVE IN A POWER
GREATER THAN OURSELVES.
WE BELIEVE THAT WE
CAN, THROUGH OUR FAITH,
MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE WORLD.
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE
WANT TO BELIEVE
IN THE FUNDAMENTAL POWER OF GOOD
AND THE POSSIBILITY FOR CHANGE.
BEYOND OUR DIFFERENCES,
THERE IS A COMMON HOPE
THAT BINDS US TOGETHER,
A PROFOUND SENSE
THAT WHAT WE SHARE IS SACRED.
WE ARE A PEOPLE OF FAITH.
Young: MOST OF US THINK
WE'RE HUMAN BEINGS
HAVING A SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE,
WHEN ACTUALLY IT'S
PROBABLY MORE ACCURATE
THAT WE'RE SPIRITUAL BEINGS
HAVING A HUMAN EXPERIENCE.
Chopra: SPIRITUALITY COMES
FROM THE DEPTH OF THE HEART
TO RELATE TO GOD, THE CREATOR,
AND EVERYONE DO
IT IN HIS OWN WAY.
THAT'S HOW I DEFINE
SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE,
TO ENTER A DOMAIN OF AWARENESS
WHERE YOU RECOGNIZE
YOUR UNIVERSALITY.
Tutu: THE HUMAN BEING IS CREATED
IN THE IMAGE OF
THE DIVINE BEING,
WHICH MAKES A HUMAN
BEING, EVERY HUMAN BEING,
NOT JUST IMPORTANT, BUT
SOMEONE OF INFINITE WORTH.
WHEN WE SEE GOD IN ALL,
THEN WE ARE ONLY THEN
BEGINNING TO SEE GOD.
Armstrong: RELIGION IS THE QUEST
FOR A TRANSCENDENT
VISION THAT ENABLES US
TO MAKE SENSE OF OUR WORLD
AND OUR RELATIONSHIP
TO OTHER PEOPLE,
A QUEST FOR MEANING,
AND A DESIRE TO
BECOME FULLY HUMAN.
Lord Carey: RELIGION IS A
POWERFUL FORCE FOR GOOD--
THE EMPHASIS UPON THE FAMILY,
COMMITMENT TO MARRIAGE,
A COMMITMENT OF ETHICAL
FRAMEWORK FOR LIFE,
A COMMITMENT TO CHILDREN,
A COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL ORDER,
TO PEACE AND STABILITY.
THE VALUES OF JUSTICE,
THE VALUES OF CHARITY,
THE VALUES OF
PROTECTION OF THE POOR,
THE VALUES OF...OF CREATING
SOCIAL SAFETY NETS.
THESE ARE RELIGIOUS VALUES.
Tutu: HUMAN BEINGS
ARE MORAL BEINGS,
AND RELIGION TRIES TO
ENCOURAGE ITS ADHERENCE
TO SEEK TO DO THE GOOD AND
TO AVOID THE BAD, THE EVIL.
RELIGION IS THE PRIMARY
FUNDAMENTAL RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN A CREATURE
AND ITS CREATOR.
[MEN CHANTING]
Rosen: IF GOD RELATES TO US
AND HAS CREATED US
IN ALL OUR DIVERSITY,
THEN OBVIOUSLY THERE
ARE UNLIMITED WAYS
OF RELATING TO GOD.
YOU CAN NEVER UNDERSTAND
THE TOTALITY OF THE DIVINE
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOD.
AND THEREFORE ANY RELIGION
IS ONLY A PARTIAL GLIMPSE
INTO THAT ETERNAL TRUTH,
AND NONE OF US CAN HAVE MORE
THAN A PARTIAL GLIMPSE.
Jones: SPIRITUALITY IS A SEED,
AND THEN RELIGION, YOU KNOW,
THEY'RE JUST THE
DIFFERENT FLOWERS
THAT BLOOM WHERE
YOU PLANT THAT SEED.
SO IF YOU PLANT THE
SEED IN THIS SOCIETY,
IT'LL BLOOM THIS
WAY, THIS WAY.
YOU PLANT THE SEED HERE,
IT'LL BLOOM DIFFERENTLY.
BUT THERE IS A COMMON SEED.
Malekar: AS BEES TAKE HONEY
FROM DIFFERENT FLOWERS,
SIMILARLY, A WISE MAN
TAKES A SENSE OF GOODNESS
FROM EACH AND EVERY RELIGION.
Fitzgerald: WE HAVE
A COMMON HUMANITY.
WE BELONG TO DIFFERENT NATIONS.
WE BELONG TO DIFFERENT
ETHNIC GROUPS,
AND THE RELIGIONS
ALSO ARE DIFFERENT.
BUT BASICALLY,
WE ARE ALL HUMAN.
WE HAVE THE SAME NEEDS. WE
HAVE THE SAME ASPIRATIONS.
AND WE'RE FACED WITH
THE SAME PROBLEMS.
[SPEAKING NATIVE LANGUAGE]
Translator: SO WE
HAVE TO GO BEYOND
THE CONVENTIONAL
APPROACH TO RELIGION
TO GET TO THE ROOTS
OF THESE RELIGIONS.
WE ALL SHARE THE
ONE AND ONLY THING,
WHICH IS PEACE AND STABILITY
FOR ALL HUMAN BEINGS
AND FREE WILL FOR ALL HUMANKIND.
IF YOU LOOK JUST
AT THE DIFFERENCES,
FORGET WHAT IS PURPOSE.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
THERE ARE BIG DIFFERENCES.
BUT IF YOU LOOK WHAT IS THE
PURPOSE OF THESE TRADITIONS,
NO MATTER HOW
MANY DIFFERENCES,
ALL CARRY THE
MESSAGE OF IMPORTANCE
OF LOVE, COMPASSION,
FORGIVENESS, TOLERANCE.
THESE ARE FUNDAMENTAL
VALUE OF HUMAN BEING.
IT BECOMES VERY CLEAR...
ALL THESE DIFFERENT
PHILOSOPHIES...
SIMPLY DIFFERENT
WAY OF APPROACH,
BUT SAME GOAL, SAME MESSAGE--
TO CREATE BETTER HUMAN BEING.
PEOPLE HAVE HARMED, OPPRESSED,
AND EVEN EXTERMINATED OTHERS
IN THE NAME OF GOD.
HOW IS IT THAT
RELIGION CAN BE USED
TO JUSTIFY SUCH VIOLENCE?
Chopra: THERE'S AN EXPRESSION
THAT GOD GAVE HUMANS THE TRUTH,
AND THEN THE DEVIL SAID,
LET'S ORGANIZE IT.
WE'LL CALL IT RELIGION.
IT IS NOT THE RELIGION
THAT HAS CAUSED PROBLEMS.
IT IS THE PRACTITIONERS
OF RELIGION
THAT HAS CAUSED PROBLEMS.
Lhakdor: MANY PEOPLE
SAY THAT RELIGION
IS A SOURCE OF CONFLICT,
AND PEOPLE FIGHT IN
THE NAME OF RELIGION.
I WOULD NOT SAY RELIGION ITSELF
IS A SOURCE OF CONFLICT.
IT IS AGAIN THE HUMAN BEINGS
WHO ARE THE, REALLY, SOURCE
OF, YOU KNOW, CONFLICT.
IT REALLY ANGERS ME
BECAUSE OF THE FACT
THAT THIS HAS NOTHING
TO DO WITH FAITH.
IT IS LIKE MISUSING THE
GREAT MOTIVATING FORCE
OF RELIGION.
THIS IS REALLY THE
VESTED INTEREST
OF SOME SELF-SEEKING INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE MAKING LIFE MISERABLE.
Armstrong: THERE ARE ALWAYS
PEOPLE IN EVERY RELIGIOUS SYSTEM
WHO DON'T WANT TO
BE COMPASSIONATE,
AND THEY WOULD
RATHER BE RIGHT,
AND THAT'S A GREAT TEMPTATION
FOR RELIGIOUS PEOPLE.
AND ANYBODY WHO
DOESN'T AGREE WITH YOU,
THEN THEY'RE OUTSIDE,
THEY'RE CAST OUT
INTO OUTER DARKNESS,
AND YOU WON'T HAVE
ANYTHING TO DO WITH THEM
AND YOU FIGHT AGAINST THEM,
AND THAT'S REALLY NOT THE WAY
GOD CREATED THE
WORLD, I THINK.
WE ARE CALLED TO HAVE
A MUCH BROADER VIEW.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU SAY GOD
IS LOVE, FOR EXAMPLE,
THEN YOU CAN'T SAY, WELL,
LOVE IS ONLY FROM ISRAEL,
OR LOVE IS ONLY FROM
FRANCE, OR LOVE...
I MEAN, EVERY BEING...
LOVE IS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
LOVE IS EVERYWHERE. LOVE
IS THE LOGOS, YOU KNOW.
IT'S IN THE ATOMS
OF THE UNIVERSE.
SO PEOPLE WHO TRY TO,
LIKE, GRAB IT AND OWN IT
AND SAY THAT NOBODY ELSE HAS IT
ARE THE PROBLEM
HERE, YOU KNOW.
[PEOPLE CHANTING]
Jones: YOU KNOW, THIS QUEST
FOR CERTAINTY IS SO DANGEROUS.
YOU KNOW, I KNOW
MY DOCTRINE IS CORRECT,
AND THAT'S MY FAITH.
NO, NO, NO, NO.
FAITH IS STANDING
IN THE MYSTERY.
FAITH IS BEING COMPLETELY
BAFFLED BY THE MYSTERY
AND YET STILL BELIEVING
INSIDE YOURSELF
THAT THERE'S A UNIVERSE
WORKING FOR GOOD
AND THAT'S THERE'S A
PURPOSE FOR YOUR LIFE
AND THAT YOU'LL
FIND THAT PURPOSE
THE MORE YOU SURRENDER
TO THAT MYSTERY,
NOT TO THE CERTAINTY.
THAT'S FAITH.
YOU KNOW, THERE IS A SAYING
OF A GREAT MUSLIM MYSTIC,
JALALUDDIN RUMI, WHO SAID,
I WENT TO THE CHURCH SEEKING
GOD, AND I DIDN'T FIND IT.
THEN I WENT TO SYNAGOGUE,
AND I DID NOT FIND
GOD EITHER THERE.
AND THEN I WENT
TO THE MOSQUE,
AND I DID NOT FIND GOD
IN THE MOSQUE EITHER.
I CAME HOME, AND I
FOUND GOD IN MY HEART.
Chopra: BECAUSE THE SPIRITUAL
EXPERIENCE IS SO INTOXICATING
AND BECAUSE IT'S SO MEANINGFUL
AND BECAUSE WE ALL
SO YEARN FOR IT,
IF WE DON'T HAVE THE
DIRECT EXPERIENCE OURSELF,
WE LOOK TO AUTHORITIES.
I DON'T THINK CHRIST
WAS A CHRISTIAN
OR THAT BUDDHA WAS A BUDDHIST.
THESE ARE WORDS THAT
WE CREATED LATER.
WE TOOK AN EXPERIENCE,
SOMEBODY ELSE'S EXPERIENCE,
AND WE BELIEVED IN IT,
AND THEN WE CREATED
DOGMA AND IDEOLOGY AROUND IT.
YOU KNOW, MY GOD IS
BETTER THAN YOUR GOD.
THEN WE GO TO WAR TO DEFEND IT.
BECAUSE RELIGION SEEKS TO
GIVE MEANING TO OUR LIVES,
IT'S BOUND UP WITH
ALL THE COMPONENTS
OF OUR UNDERSTANDING
OF WHO WE ARE
AS INDIVIDUALS, AS
MEMBERS OF FAMILIES,
AS COMMUNITIES, AS
NATIONS, PEOPLES,
EVEN AS PART OF
THE WHOLE COSMOS.
THE SOURCES OF PEOPLE'S
VIOLENT BEHAVIOR
ARE ALWAYS SOME
FORM OF ALIENATION.
IN SOME SENSE, THAT
SOCIETY LOOKS DOWN ON YOU
OR EVEN HUMILIATES YOU.
YOU OFTEN SEE
RELIGION BEING USED
TO STRENGTHEN THE
SENSE OF IDENTITY
OF THOSE WHO FEEL THAT
THEY'RE BEING ATTACKED.
MOST OF THE SO-CALLED
FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENTS
IN RELIGIOUS TERMS SPRING FROM
THIS KIND OF FEAR
OF ANNIHILATION
OR THE DESIRE TO ASSERT
A CLEAR IDENTITY.
AND THEREFORE TO SEE YOURSELF AS
THE GODLY AGAINST THE GODLESS
AND TO SEE YOURSELF
IN AN INEXORABLE WAR
BETWEEN THE GOOD
AGAINST THE EVIL.
WHEN THE CRUSADERS
WENT INTO BATTLE
TO KILL JEWS AND MUSLIMS,
THEY CRIED, GOD WILLS IT!
THAT WAS THEIR BATTLE CRY.
THERE'S ALWAYS BEEN
A DANGER OF USING GOD
TO ENDORSE SOME OF OUR WORST
FEARS, HATREDS, AND PREJUDICES.
BECAUSE ONCE YOU TOUCH
RELIGION, FAITH,
IT'S FILLED WITH EMOTION.
SO EASY MANIPULATED.
WHEN PEOPLE HURT
IN THE NAME OF GOD,
I CAN'T QUITE UNDERSTAND
BECAUSE IN MY OPINION,
GOD IS LOVE.
PROBABLY...IF YOU
ARE FIGHTING FOR GOD,
I'M ASKING TO MYSELF,
IS THIS PERSON
TRYING TO CONVINCE
HIM- OR HERSELF
THAT THEY HAVE FAITH?
Armstrong: ONCE YOU SAY
THAT IT'S RIGHT TO KILL
IN THE NAME OF GOD,
YOU HAVE LOST THE PLOT
IN RELIGIOUS TERMS.
ALL THE RELIGIONS TEACH
THAT STOPPING VIOLENCE
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
IS ABSOLUTELY CRUCIAL
AND THAT HUMAN LIFE,
EVEN THE HUMAN LIFE
OF OUR ENEMIES,
IS ABSOLUTELY SACRED
AND INVALUABLE.
TO SAY THAT IT'S RIGHT TO
KILL IN THE NAME OF GOD
IS A HERESY.
THE MOST FERVENT BELIEVERS
ARE FUNDAMENTALISTS,
AND LOOK WHAT THEY'VE
DONE TO THE WORLD.
Narrator: AFTER YEARS
OF RUSSIAN OCCUPATION
AND CIVIL WAR,
A RELIGIOUS PARTY
CALLED THE TALIBAN
TOOK CONTROL OF
AFGHANISTAN IN 1995.
THIS FUNDAMENTALIST
SECT BELIEVED IN
THE STRICT ENFORCEMENT
OF ISLAMIC LAW
AS THEY INTERPRETED IT.
THEY PREVENTED GIRLS
FROM GOING TO SCHOOL.
THEY BARRED WOMEN FROM WORKING
AND PROHIBITED THEM FROM
APPEARING IN PUBLIC
WITHOUT A MALE RELATIVE.
SHUKRIA BARAKZAI, A
DEVOUT MUSLIM WOMAN,
REFUSED TO OBEY THE TALIBAN'S
RESTRICTIONS ON HER FREEDOM.
Barakzai: I REMEMBER
THE TALIBAN,
THEY BEAT ME IN THE
STREET. FOR WHAT?
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T LIKE WOMEN.
I WAS JUST WENT TO THE
DOCTOR. I WAS SICK.
I WEAR THE BURQA.
EVEN I HAD MY SOCKS AND
SHOES AND EVERYTHING,
AND I COVERED MY HANDS,
BUT WITH ALL
THESE TOUGH RULES,
THEY PUNISHED ME
BECAUSE THERE WAS
NO MALE MEMBER OF
MY FAMILY WITH ME.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE FOR
OTHERS TO IMAGINE
WHEN YOU ARE NOT FREE.
EVEN YOU DIDN'T HAVE THE
RIGHTS TO GO TO THE DOCTOR.
WHY? FOR WHAT?
I AM GLAD, BECAUSE THIS
PUNISHMENT HAS JUST...
WAS A SHOCK FOR ME.
I GOT NEW POWER AFTER
THIS PUNISHMENT,
THE POWER TO FIGHT,
AND I REALLY START TO
WORK FOR WOMEN'S FREEDOM
WITHOUT ANY DISCRIMINATION,
BECAUSE I BELIEVE GOD
WILL NOT ALLOW THIS.
I FEEL MYSELF, AS A
RESPONSIBLE AFGHAN,
AS AN INDIVIDUAL,
TO FIGHT FOR THAT,
TO DO SOMETHING FOR THE FUTURE.
AND I START UNDERGROUND
SECRET SCHOOL.
[WOMAN SPEAKING]
IT WASN'T A BIG SCHOOL,
BECAUSE EVERYTHING
WAS UNDERGROUND,
AND I WAS THE ONLY TEACHER.
AT THE TIME, CONDITION
WAS BAD FOR YOUNG WOMEN,
PARTICULARLY EDUCATED WOMEN.
I BOUGHT SOME BOOKS
FROM THE MARKET,
AND WE TRIED TO JUST TEACH THEM.
WITH THE YOUNG GIRLS,
WE TRY TO KEEP HOPE.
WE GIVE THEM HOPE
FOR THE FUTURE.
WE TRY OUR BEST TO
KEEP ON THEIR HEART
A WISH FOR TOMORROW.
I THINK YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE
TO TEACH OTHERS.
IF SOMEONE NEEDS YOU,
TRY TO HELP THEM.
THAT'S...THAT'S...THAT'S
THE MOST IMPORTANT FOR ME.
I BELIEVE THAT WE ARE HUMAN,
AND I BELIEVE GOD WILL
BE HAPPY IF WE ARE EQUAL.
OF COURSE, ISLAM
IS MY RELIGION,
AND I DEEPLY RESPECT THAT.
WHEN I'M ASKING
WOMEN'S RIGHTS,
IT'S DIRECT CONNECTION WITH
ISLAM, WITH MY RELIGION.
WHY ISLAM WOMEN HAVE
RIGHTS OF EDUCATION.
ISLAM NEVER MEANS
LACK OF FREEDOM.
ISLAM MEANS RESPECT,
RESPECT EACH OTHER.
FOR ME, GOD MEANS LOVE.
I LOVE MY GOD.
I BELIEVE HIM.
HE PROTECTS ME ALWAYS.
Narrator: FUNDAMENTALISTS
STILL WANT TO MURDER SHUKRIA.
SHE AND 5 OTHER MEMBERS
OF THE AFGHAN PARLIAMENT
HAVE BEEN MARKED FOR
DEATH BY SUICIDE BOMB.
Barakzai: TODAY, I AM
WORKING FOR REFORM.
WHEN YOU'RE
STANDING FOR REFORM,
WHEN YOU'RE STANDING
FOR DEMOCRACY,
WHEN YOU'RE
STANDING FOR PEACE,
STABILITY, ACCOUNTABILITY,
SOLIDARITY,
OF COURSE YOU'RE
RECEIVING SO MANY ENEMIES.
IT'S FULL OF TENSION.
THEY WANT TO DO A
SUICIDE ATTACK TO ME.
[SPEAKING NATIVE LANGUAGE]
I LOVE MY CHILDREN, AND I
AM RESPONSIBLE FOR THEM.
IT'S HARD FOR A
MOTHER LEAVING A HOUSE
WITHOUT ANY BELIEF
THAT SHE WILL BE BACK,
THAT TOMORROW THERE
WILL BE ANOTHER DAY.
BUT I AM NOT JUST
RESPONSIBLE FOR MY KIDS.
I AM RESPONSIBLE FOR THE NATION.
IT'S MY RESPONSIBILITY
AS A MOTHER
AND ALSO AS A MUSLIM
TO SHOW THE RIGHT WAY.
EVEN IF I WOULD DIE
BY SUICIDE ATTACKS,
I WILL BE PROUD OF THAT...
BECAUSE I AM DYING
FOR MY COUNTRY,
I AM DYING FOR FREEDOM, I
WILL BE DYING FOR EQUALITY,
FOR DEMOCRACY.
IT'S GOOD TO DIE
FOR SOMETHING,
RATHER THAN DYING FOR NOTHING.
Narrator: IN NOVEMBER 2007,
SHUKRIA BARAKZAI WAS WOUNDED
BY A SUICIDE BOMB IN
NORTHERN AFGHANISTAN.
6 MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT
DIED IN THE ATTACK
ALONG WITH 52 OF THE CHILDREN
WAITING TO GREET THEM.
SHUKRIA SURVIVES AND
CONTINUES HER MISSION.
[SPEAKING NATIVE LANGUAGE]
Translator: IN ISLAM, WE
DEEPLY BELIEVE IN DEMOCRACY,
AND WE DEEPLY BELIEVE IN THE
EQUALITY OF ALL HUMAN BEINGS.
GOD DIRECTLY STATES THAT
YOU MUST LIVE IN A WORLD
WHERE ALL HUMAN
BEINGS WILL BE EQUAL,
NOT IN A WORLD WHERE
SOME WILL BE MASTERS
AND SOME WILL BE SLAVES.
Baird: WE HOLD THESE
TRUTHS TO BE SELF-EVIDENT,
THAT ALL MEN ARE
CREATED EQUAL,
ENDOWED BY THEIR CREATOR
WITH UNALIENABLE RIGHTS.
THAT'S BEAUTIFUL,
BEAUTIFUL LANGUAGE,
AND IT'S A BEAUTIFUL
REALITY IF WE EMBODY IT.
Rauf: THESE RIGHTS ARE NOT GIVEN
TO US BY THE CONSTITUTION.
THEY'RE NOT GIVEN TO US BY MAN.
THEY'RE GIVEN TO
US BY THE CREATOR,
WHICH IS WHY THEY
ARE INALIENABLE.
Badawi: THESE VALUES
ARE UNIVERSAL VALUES.
GOD SAYS THAT IF YOU
JUDGE THE AFFAIRS OF MEN,
YOU MUST BE FAIR AND JUST.
Man: A LEADER HAS
A RESPONSIBILITY
IF HE IS A LEADER
FOR ALL PEOPLE.
AND AS HUMAN BEINGS,
WE HAVE BASIC RIGHTS.
AND WE SHOULD NOT BE DENIED
THOSE RIGHTS AS HUMAN BEINGS
BECAUSE WE ARE HINDUS
OR MUSLIMS OR CHRISTIANS
OR SUBSCRIBE TO CONFUCIUS.
Translator: THE UNIVERSAL
TEACHINGS OF ABRAHAM
SAY WE SHOULD ALL LIVE
TOGETHER IN PEACE AND LOVE
WITH A SYSTEM OF
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
Rosen: EVERY HUMAN BEING
IS OF INESTIMABLE VALUE,
THEIR LIFE AND THEIR DIGNITY,
FOR IN THE IMAGE OF GOD
HE MADE THE HUMAN BEING.
IN OTHER WORDS, ANY
ACT OF DISRESPECT,
OF DISREGARD, OF HUMILIATION
TOWARDS ANOTHER HUMAN BEING IS,
IN FACT, AN ACT OF DISRESPECT
AND AS IT WERE OF HUMILIATION
TOWARDS GOD HIMSELF.
[SIREN]
Jones: MY VIEW IS THAT THERE
IS NO AUTHENTIC SPIRITUALITY
THAT DOESN'T HAVE A
POWERFUL ENGAGEMENT
WITH THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
SUFFERING THE MOST.
Narrator: VAN JONES
PUTS HIS FAITH TO WORK
BY DEFENDING OUTCASTS.
HE'S AN ATTORNEY AND AN ADVOCATE
FOR THE ADDICTED, THE
ACCUSED, AND THE CONVICTED.
FOR ME, IT WAS VERY NATURAL
AS I, YOU KNOW,
GOT MY LAW DEGREE,
TO BEGIN TO LOOK FOR WAYS--
HOW CAN I MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
HOW CAN I REACH
OUT TO THE PEOPLE
WHO HAVE BEEN,
YOU KNOW, EXCLUDED,
ABANDONED, MISTREATED?
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE WHO
ARE INCARCERATED,
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
CONDEMNED TO DEATH.
FOR ME, THAT WAS
THE WORST THING--
THAT SOMEBODY WOULD
BE EXCLUDED FROM
THE CIRCLE OF FORGIVENESS
AND REDEMPTION,
TO ME, THAT WAS WHAT IT WAS ALL
ABOUT, YOU KNOW--REDEMPTION.
I THOUGHT A REAL
EXTENSION OF MY OWN FAITH
WAS TO DO THIS WORK
OF HELPING THE PEOPLE
WHO HAVE BEEN PUT BEHIND BARS.
WHAT IF THE SOCIETY
REALLY RECOGNIZED
THAT THE REAL
POWER OF, YOU KNOW,
WHEN PEOPLE DO HIT BOTTOM,
THAT THAT'S THE BEST
POSSIBLE MOMENT IN SOME WAYS
TO HELP THAT PERSON TO
REBOUND, TO RECOVER,
AND TO THINK ABOUT
THE GIFTS TO SOCIETY
OF THAT KIND OF AN OUTCOME?
INSTEAD WE SAY, THAT
WORST POSSIBLE MOMENT
IS JUST THE BEGINNING
OF BAD MOMENTS FOR YOU,
BECAUSE WE'RE GOING
TO MAKE IT WORSE FOR YOU
AND WORSE FOR YOU
AND WORSE FOR YOU.
I DON'T BELIEVE WE HAVE
ANY THROWAWAY CHILDREN
OR ANY THROWAWAY NEIGHBORHOODS
OR ANY THROWAWAY NATIONS
OR CONTINENTS OR SPECIES.
I THINK IT'S ALL PRECIOUS,
AND, YOU KNOW, FOR ME, THAT'S
THE GROUNDING OF MY FAITH,
THAT IT'S ALL SACRED.
YOU KNOW, THE CREATOR
MADE ALL OF THIS,
AND OUR CHALLENGE IS TO
SEE THE CREATOR'S FACE,
EVEN IN THE FACE OF THE PERSON
WHO WE WANT TO LABEL
AS THE WRONGDOER.
I HAD A DAUGHTER THAT WAS BORN
2 DAYS BEFORE I WAS ARRESTED,
AND I'M FACING
THE DEATH PENALTY.
AND THERE'S A LITTLE BABY
THAT'S SITTING THERE
KISSING MY FINGERS.
AND IT JUST...
I'M WATCHING HER,
AND I'M... AND I'M
THINKING, LIKE,
ALL THIS THAT I'VE
DONE WAS FOR ME.
NEVER ONCE HAVE I EVER THOUGHT
THAT THIS LIFE THAT I'D
BROUGHT INTO THE WORLD
WOULD HAVE TO GROW UP AND
EXPLAIN WHERE HER DADDY'S BEEN
OR WHERE HER DADDY
IS GOING TO GO.
AND WHEN I SEEN
THAT, IT WAS LIKE
GOD JUST SOCKED ME ALL
IN THE...IN THE GUT,
AND IT JUST WOKE ME UP
TO WHERE I'M SAYING,
HEY, IF THERE IS A
GOD, IF THERE IS A GOD,
SHOW ME. SHOW ME.
AND, UM...I WALKED INTO COURT,
AND MY LAWYER HAD
RECEIVED A LETTER
THAT THEY WERE NO LONGER
SEEKING THE DEATH PENALTY.
AND IT JUST STARTED
THE BALL TURNING.
I GUESS COMPASSION COMES FROM
FINDING A PURPOSE FOR YOURSELF.
FOR ME, THAT'S WHAT IT WAS.
IT WAS SEEING THESE
KIDS ON THE STREETS
GOING THROUGH THE SAME
THING THAT I WENT THROUGH
FOR MY JOURNEY HERE IN PRISON.
WE TRY TO REACH OUT
AND STOP THOSE KIDS
FROM TRYING TO BECOME US.
Man: THE PERSONAL
TRANSFORMATION THAT I MADE
ISN'T SO MUCH IMPORTANT TO ME
AS THE TRANSFORMATION
THAT WE COLLECTIVELY
ARE GOING TO MAKE.
GOD CAN USE A LIFE, NO
MATTER WHERE THAT LIFE IS.
THE CREATOR HAS A
BETTER PLAN THAN WE DO.
AND NELSON MANDELA
CHANGED THE WORLD
FROM INSIDE A PRISON CELL.
SO, YOU KNOW, I THINK
IT'S REAL IMPORTANT
TO UNDERSTAND THE
AMOUNT OF POWER.
WE DON'T KNOW WHO
WE'RE TOUCHING.
AND SO I JUST FEEL
LIKE, IN SOME WAYS,
YOU GUYS ARE REALLY
ON THE LEADING EDGE
OF WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT,
BECAUSE TO BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE
WHAT YOU'RE ACHIEVING,
THAT SPIRITUAL DOMAIN,
WHEN SOCIETY WOULD SAY, WELL,
THIS WOULD BE THE WORST PLACE.
THEY COULDN'T DO IT HERE.
BUT FOR YOU GUYS TO
BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE IT,
I THINK IT REALLY OPENS A DOOR
AND SHOWS A GOOD WAY FORWARD.
WHEN YOU SPEND A LOT OF
YOUR LIFE GOING TO FUNERALS
FOR PEOPLE WHO
HAVE DIED IN PRISON
OR WHO HAVE DIED AT THE
HANDS OF EACH OTHER,
YOU KNOW, YOU BEGIN
TO REALLY GET A SENSE
OF HOW PRECIOUS LIFE IS.
IF PEOPLE OUTSIDE
COULD SEE THIS,
I THINK WE MIGHT BE A LITTLE
BIT MORE WILLING TO FORGIVE,
TO THINK ABOUT HOW WE MIGHT
MAKE A BRIDGE BACK HOME.
[CHANTING]
[JINGLING]
Armstrong: WHEN THE GREAT WORLD
FAITHS WERE COMING INTO BEING,
ALL OF THEM BEGAN INITIALLY
WITH REVULSION FROM VIOLENCE.
THEY TRIED TO FIND NEW
WAYS OF CONTROLLING
THE RAGE AND HATRED
IN OUR HEARTS.
AND THAT IS THE KIND OF
SPIRITUALITY, I THINK,
THAT IS NEEDED IN OUR
BITTERLY DIVIDED WORLD.
Narrator: ALL RELIGIONS
TEACH THE BASIC PRINCIPLES
OF LOVE AND COMPASSION.
THESE ARE SIMPLE IDEAS,
BUT THEY HAVE SHAPED THE
MOST REVOLUTIONARY EVENTS
OF OUR TIME.
IN THE 1920's, A
DEEPLY RELIGIOUS MAN,
MOHANDAS GANDHI, EMERGED
AS THE STRONGEST VOICE
FOR INDIAN INDEPENDENCE
FROM BRITISH RULE.
YET GANDHI DID NOT CALL
FOR AN ARMED REVOLUTION.
INSTEAD, HE URGED INDIANS
TO USE NONVIOLENT PROTEST
AND PEACEFUL RESISTANCE.
MAHATMA GANDHI SAID,
IF YOU WANT TO SEE
CHANGE IN THE WORLD,
YOU HAVE TO BE THE CHANGE.
Ela Gandhi: GANDHI'S ENTIRE
PHILOSOPHY WAS BASED ON LOVE,
LOVE FOR YOUR ENTIRE UNIVERSE,
FOR ALL LIFE, FOR ALL PEOPLE.
SO HE NEVER SAW
PEOPLE AS ENEMIES.
FOR HIM, THE MINUTE
YOU USE VIOLENCE,
THEN IT'S A SPIRAL.
VIOLENCE RAISES
BITTERNESS IN YOUR HEART,
AND THEN YOU WANT
TO TAKE REVENGE.
YOU CONTINUE TO KILL PEOPLE...
UNTIL EVERYBODY
IS DEAD, YOU KNOW,
BECAUSE YOU CANNOT HAVE VIOLENCE
AND NOT HAVE BITTERNESS.
HE SAID THAT HIS
LIFE WAS HIS MESSAGE.
AND I THINK THAT'S THE
GREATNESS OF GUJARATI.
ONCE THEY ASKED
MAHATMA GANDHI,
WHAT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT
QUALITY IN SPIRITUALITY?
AND MAHATMA GANDHI
SAID, NOT BE COWARD.
I THINK THE MOST
IMPORTANT QUALITY
THAT A MAN OR A WOMAN
SHOULD HAVE IS TO BE BRAVE.
Narrator: THE REVEREND
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
BASED THE AMERICAN
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
ON THE TEACHINGS OF THE
HINDU MAHATMA GANDHI.
THE BAPTIST MINISTER
FROM ATLANTA, GEORGIA,
SAW THAT LOVE AND RESPECT COULD
SET BLACK AND WHITE AMERICANS
FREE OF THEIR RACIST HISTORY.
Young: GANDHI'S
UNDERSTANDING OF CHRISTIANITY
WAS MORE RELEVANT TO ME
THAN THE UNDERSTANDING
OF CHRISTIANITY
THAT I GOT FROM MOST
U.S. CHRISTIANS,
AND PARTICULARLY THE IDEA
OF LOVING YOUR ENEMY.
I'D NEVER HEARD
ANYBODY IN THE U.S.
TAKE THAT SERIOUSLY HARDLY.
LOVE YOUR ENEMY AND BLESS
THOSE THAT PERSECUTE YOU.
THERE WEREN'T MANY
PEOPLE THAT WERE TALKING
NONVIOLENT SOCIAL CHANGE.
AND THERE WAS STILL A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF DOUBT,
I DIDN'T THINK NONVIOLENCE
WOULD WORK IN THE SOUTH,
THAT AMERICA WAS TOO
VIOLENT AND TOO MILITARIST
TO RESPOND TO THIS.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS SAID THAT
THE STRUGGLE FOR FREEDOM
IS A STRUGGLE TO SAVE
BLACK MEN'S BODIES
AND WHITE MEN'S SOULS.
RACISM IS A SICKNESS,
AND YOU DON'T GET
ANGRY WITH SICK PEOPLE.
YOU HELP THEM AND HEAL THEM.
AND HEALING WAS SPIRITUAL.
AND NONVIOLENCE
THEN SEEMED TO BE
A SPIRITUAL METHOD OF HEALING.
THAT WAS THE FIRST TIME I
UNDERSTOOD THAT RELIGION
HAD THE CAPACITY
TO CHANGE PEOPLE,
AND IF YOU CAN CHANGE PEOPLE,
YOU CAN CHANGE SOCIETY.
King, Jr.: THE AFTERMATH OF
NONVIOLENCE IS THE CREATION
OF THE BELOVED COMMUNITY.
THE AFTERMATH OF
NONVIOLENCE IS REDEMPTION.
WE MUST COME TO
THE POINT OF SEEING
THAT OUR ULTIMATE AIM
IS TO LIVE WITH ALL MEN
AS BROTHERS AND
SISTERS UNDER GOD
AND NOT BE THEIR ENEMIES.
Young: MARTIN USED TO SAY
THAT LIFE IS ABOUT COMMITMENT
TO YOUR OWN BELIEFS,
AND IF YOU'RE COMMITTED
TO THOSE BELIEFS
AND ARE WILLING TO WORK HARD,
SACRIFICE, SUFFER,
AND BE SENSITIVE
TO THE PEOPLE WHO
DISAGREE WITH YOU,
THEN THERE'S ALMOST
NOTHING THAT CAN'T BE DONE.
[SHOUTING]
Narrator: IN THE 1940's,
THE MINORITY WHITE
SOUTH AFRICAN GOVERNMENT
INTRODUCED A RIGID SYSTEM
OF RACIAL SEGREGATION
CALLED APARTHEID.
LEADERS OF THE RELIGIOUS
OPPOSITION TO APARTHEID BELIEVED
THAT VIOLENT RESISTANCE WOULD
ONLY CREATE MORE HATRED.
[MAN SHOUTS COMMAND]
Tutu: WE USED TO SAY OF OUR
SITUATION IN SOUTH AFRICA
THAT IT LOOKED SO
UTTERLY HOPELESS.
[SHOUTING]
BUT WE USED TO
SAY TO OUR PEOPLE,
THIS IS A MORAL UNIVERSE.
RIGHT AND WRONG MATTER.
AND THERE'S NO WAY,
DESPITE ALL APPEARANCES
TO THE CONTRARY,
THERE'S NO WAY IN WHICH EVIL
WILL HAVE THE LAST WORD.
AND WE REALIZED THAT THE HEALING
COULD ULTIMATELY ACTUALLY HAPPEN
ONLY THROUGH THOSE WHO
WERE THEMSELVES WOUNDED.
Narrator: THE PEOPLE
OF SOUTH AFRICA
DECIDED THAT IT WASN'T ENOUGH
TO JUST END THE VIOLENCE.
THEY NEEDED TO LEARN
TO FORGIVE ONE ANOTHER.
Tutu: THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN
APPROPRIATE FORGIVENESS
IS BY CONFESSING.
[HORNS HONKING AND
PEOPLE CHEERING]
PEOPLE ARE A GLORIOUS CREATION.
JUST AS MUCH AS WE
HAVE THIS EXTRAORDINARY
CAPACITY FOR EVIL,
SO WE HAVE A REMARKABLE
CAPACITY FOR GOOD.
EACH ONE OF US HAS THE
CAPACITY TO BECOME A SAINT.
INCREDIBLE.
[LOUD VOICES]
WE FOLLOW THE ONE WHO SAYS,
FORGIVE ONE ANOTHER
AS GOD IN CHRIST
FORGAVE YOU.
THERE IS NO SITUATION
ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD
THAT IS NOT TRANSFIGURABLE.
THERE IS NOBODY IN THE WORLD
WHO IS BEYOND THE PAIN.
WE ARE FAMILY. SOME ARE
LIGHT IN COMPLEXION,
OTHERS DARK, RIGHT
AROUND THE WORLD,
AND GOD'S DREAM IS THAT
ONE DAY WE WILL WAKE UP
TO THIS FUNDAMENTAL
TRUTH ABOUT US.
Narrator: THE CHINESE
INVASION OF TIBET IN 1951
DROVE THE DALAI LAMA INTO EXILE.
DESPITE A LIFETIME OUTSIDE
OF HIS OWN HOMELAND,
HIS HOLINESS HAS NEVER ABANDONED
HIS BELIEF IN NONVIOLENCE,
AND HE REMAINS ONE OF
THE MOST POWERFUL VOICES
FOR PEACEFUL
RECONCILIATION TODAY.
Dalai Lama: WHEN WE
THINK OF THE PERSON
WHO CREATES A LOT OF THE
SUFFERINGS IN OUR OWN LAND,
USUALLY FRUSTRATIONS,
ANGERS, HATRED USUALLY COME.
SO HERE VERY USEFUL IS
IT TO MAKE DISTINCTION--
ACTION, ACTOR.
ALTHOUGH WE TOTALLY OPPOSE
THEIR ACTION, THEIR ACTIVITIES,
WE ALWAYS CAN KEEP COMPASSION.
DO NOT DEVELOP HATRED
TOWARDS THE PERSON.
ON THAT BASIS, TO
DEVELOP FORGIVENESS.
[APPLAUSE]
Narrator: IN 1989,
HE WAS AWARDED THE
NOBEL PRIZE FOR PEACE.
Translator: IN A WORLD
IN WHICH SUSPICION
AND AGGRESSION HAVE ALL TOO
LONG CHARACTERIZED RELATIONS
BETWEEN PEOPLES AND NATIONS...
AND WHERE THE ONLY
REALISTIC POLICY
HAS BEEN RELIANCE
ON THE USE OF POWER,
A NEW CONFESSION OF
FAITH IS EMERGING.
WE AFFIRM OUR UNSTINTING
SUPPORT FOR HIS WORK FOR PEACE
AND FOR THE UNARMED MASSES
ON THE MARCH IN MANY LANDS
FOR LIBERTY, PEACE,
AND HUMAN DIGNITY.
Dalai Lama: I FEEL
VERY HONORED, HUMBLE,
AND DEEPLY MOVED
THAT YOU SHOULD GIVE
THIS IMPORTANT PRIZE
TO A SIMPLE BUDDHIST MONK.
I AM NO ONE SPECIAL.
I ACCEPT THE PRIZE
WITH PROFOUND GRATITUDE
ON BEHALF OF THE
OPPRESSED EVERYWHERE
AND FOR ALL THOSE WHO
STRUGGLE FOR FREEDOM
AND WORK FOR WORLD PEACE.
ALL OF US WANT FREEDOM
AND A RIGHT TO DETERMINE
OUR OWN DESTINY AS
INDIVIDUALS AND AS PEOPLES.
BECAUSE VIOLENCE CAN ONLY BREED
MORE VIOLENCE AND SUFFERING,
OUR STRUGGLE MUST
REMAIN NONVIOLENT
AND FREE OF HATRED.
WE ARE TRYING TO END THE
SUFFERING OF OUR PEOPLE,
NOT TO INFLICT
SUFFERING ON OTHERS.
I PRAY FOR ALL OF US,
OPPRESSOR AND FRIEND,
THAT TOGETHER WE SUCCEED
IN BUILDING A BETTER WORLD
THROUGH HUMAN UNDERSTANDING
AND LOVE. THANK YOU.
[APPLAUSE]
Thurman: BUDDHA SAID IT.
HATRED WILL NEVER
PUT AN END TO HATRED,
AND VIOLENCE WILL NEVER
PUT AN END TO VIOLENCE.
ONLY LOVE CAN PUT
AN END TO HATRED,
AND ONLY NONVIOLENCE
AND GENTLENESS
CAN PUT AN END TO VIOLENCE.
IF YOU GIVE INTO ANGER AND
HATRED AND COMMIT VIOLENCE,
THE ONE WHO IS MOST
VIOLATED IS YOURSELF.
BY SURRENDERING TO
ANGER AND HATRED,
YOU ARE ALLOWING
IT TO VIOLATE YOU.
Translator: VIOLENT
METHODS NOT ONLY FAILED
TO SECURE THE INTERESTS
OF THE PARTIES
THAT RESORT TO VIOLENCE,
BUT ALSO ENDANGER
THE ENTIRE WORLD.
Narrator: FOR 60 YEARS, THERE
HAS BEEN A CONSTANT THREAT
OF VIOLENCE BETWEEN
ISRAELIS AND PALESTINIANS.
THEIR WARFARE PLAGUES
THE MIDDLE EAST
AND THE REST OF THE WORLD.
Lord Carey: WE WANT RELIGIOUS
LEADERS TO STAND UP
AND TO SPEAK MORE POWERFULLY
CONDEMNING VIOLENCE IN
THE NAME OF ALLAH OR GOD,
AND IF THEY DON'T DO THAT,
THEY ARE ABDICATING FROM
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES.
RELIGIOUS LEADERS COULD BE
OF TREMENDOUS SIGNIFICANCE
TO THE WORLD BECAUSE THEY HAVE
THE ABILITY TO MOVE PEOPLE,
AND THEY MUST USE THIS
ABILITY AND THIS CAPABILITY
OF MOVING PEOPLE TOWARDS A VERY
POSITIVE PROCESS IN THE WORLD.
WE HAVE TO BE PROACTIVE
IN REACHING OUT TO OTHERS
TO GIVE THEM A SENSE
OF THEIR OWN VALUE,
ESTEEM, AND PLACE
WITHIN SOCIETY.
AND RELIGION HAS A UNIQUE
ROLE TO PLAY IN THAT REGARD,
AND THAT'S WHY WE NEED TO
SEE THOSE RELIGIOUS VOICES
MUCH MORE CENTRALLY
ENGAGED IN A PROCESS
OF RECONCILIATION
AND PEACEMAKING.
[BELL TOLLING]
Shapiro: SO, HOW DO YOU
DEAL WITH DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN PEOPLE?
THERE ARE ALWAYS GOING TO
BE DIFFERENT RELIGIONS.
IN THE MIDDLE-EAST SITUATION,
YOU ALWAYS GOING TO--
YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE THE ISRAELIS.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
THE PALESTINIANS
AND MANY OF THE DIFFERENT
OTHER COMMUNITIES HERE.
THE QUESTION ISN'T WHO'S
GOING TO BE LIVING THERE,
BUT HOW CAN YOU LIVE TOGETHER
MOST EFFECTIVELY,
MOST CONSTRUCTIVELY?
Habash: PEOPLE DO
NOT HAVE THE CHOICE
OF WHERE, WHAT,
AND HOW TO BE BORN.
IF SOMEONE IS A CHRISTIAN
OR A MUSLIM OR A JEW,
I RESPECT PEOPLE ON THE BASIS
OF THEM BEING
EQUAL HUMAN BEINGS.
YOU HAVE TO ACCEPT THE FACT
THAT THERE ARE OTHER PEOPLE
WHO HAVE DIFFERENT
RELIGIOUS FAITHS.
WHO ARE YOU TO
DECIDE WHO IS BAD,
AND WHO ARE YOU TO
JUDGE THESE PEOPLE?
GOD DOES NOT CHOOSE BETWEEN
APPLES AND ORANGES, YOU KNOW.
HE HAS CREATED US ALL.
Narrator: WITH ALL
THAT IS AT STAKE,
MODERATE VOICES FROM BOTH
SIDES OF THE CONFLICT
ARE WORKING EVERY
DAY TO SECURE PEACE.
[CHANTING]
Salameh: GOD IS THE WHOLE
MERCY, THE WHOLE LOVE,
THE WHOLE PEACE,
THE WHOLE JUSTICE.
AND I DON'T THINK THAT GOD
THAT HAVE ALL THESE VALUES
CAN TEACH US OR TELL
US TO KILL EACH OTHER
OR TO HATE EACH OTHER
OR TO FIGHT EACH OTHER.
I DON'T THINK THIS IS GOD.
I AM A PALESTINIAN REFUGEE.
I WAS BORN IN A REFUGEE CAMP.
AND I LIVED 15 YEARS IN TENTS
IN A VERY DIFFICULT SITUATION.
I HAVE BEEN 15 YEARS IN PRISON
BECAUSE I PARTICIPATED IN
RESISTING ISRAELI OCCUPATION
FOR MY LAND.
AND IN THE PRISON, I
FIND IT IS LIKE A TRIP
FOR FINDING THE TRUTH.
I WAS ONCE IN A CELL, YOU
KNOW, A CELL, ISOLATION.
I HAVE NO BOOKS. I HAVE NOTHING.
I JUST COMING AND
GOING, COMING AND GOING.
AND THERE'S A SOLDIER,
ALSO THE SAME,
COMING AND GOING, COMING
AND GOING, A JEWISH.
AND I LOOKED AT THE
SOLDIER OUTSIDE.
I LOOKED AT HIM. I
TRIED TO LOOK AT HIM.
WOW. HE IS A HUMAN
BEING LIKE ME.
HE HAS EYES, HE HAS NOSE,
HE HAS MOUTH, HE HAS...
SO WHY HE'S OUT AND I'M IN?
WHY HE IS JEWISH
AND I'M PALESTINIAN?
WHY I'M HATING HIM?
WHY HE'S HATE ME?
HE NEVER MET ME.
SO WHO'S DECIDING
ALL THESE THINGS?
I SAID, WHY I HAVE
TO HATE THE JEWISH?
WHY I HAVE TO HATE
THE ISRAELIS?
FOR ME, I DON'T HATE THEM.
I FIND I DON'T HATE ANYONE.
THE PROBLEM IS
BETWEEN POLITICIANS,
THE INTERESTS OF POLITICIANS,
THE INTERESTS OF ECONOMY.
BRINGING ISLAMIC, CHRISTIAN,
AND JEWISH RELIGIOUS
LEADERS TOGETHER.
Narrator: DR. NOAH SALAMEH
EARNED HIS DOCTORATE
IN INTERNATIONAL PEACE
STUDIES IN THE UNITED STATES
AND RETURNED TO PALESTINE
TO WORK FOR RECONCILIATION
AND CONFLICT RESOLUTION.
[SPEAKING NATIVE LANGUAGE]
Salameh: IT IS A
PALESTINIAN ORGANIZATION
WORKING FOR PEACE AND JUSTICE,
AND WE HOPE TO MAKE
A RECONCILIATION
BETWEEN PALESTINIANS, ISRAELIS,
AND THE TWO LIVE TOGETHER,
BECAUSE I THINK THAT
GOD CREATES HUMAN BEINGS
TO LIVE IN PEACE.
WHEN WE MEET SOME ISRAELIS
WHO NEVER MET PALESTINIANS,
THEY SAY, WE NEVER THOUGHT
THAT YOU ARE LIKE THAT.
YOU HAVE TO HELP PEOPLE
TO UNDERSTAND EACH OTHER.
AT LEAST TO KNOW EACH
OTHER AS HUMAN BEINGS,
AND AFTER THAT, WORK
WITH EACH OTHER,
AS GOD WANTED.
Sadhguru: UNFORTUNATELY,
THE RELIGIOUS PROCESS
HAS ALWAYS GOTTEN
ENTWINED DEEPLY
WITH THE POLITICAL PROCESS,
AND BOTH THE FORCES
ARE USING EACH OTHER
FOR THEIR OWN ENDS,
WHICH BECOMES A COMPLEX
AND DEADLY MIX...
THE PAIN OF WHICH THE HUMANITY
HAS SEEN CONTINUOUSLY.
IF YOU LOOK BACK ON THE
HISTORY OF CONFLICT,
IT IS ALWAYS BETWEEN
ONE MAN'S BELIEF
VERSUS ANOTHER MAN'S BELIEF,
RELIGIOUS OR OTHERWISE.
WHEN I BELIEVE MY
WAY IS THE ONLY WAY,
CONFLICT IS INEVITABLE.
HOW CAN YOU AVOID IT?
Gabriel: IF PEOPLE SPEND TIME
WITH EACH OTHER, YOU KNOW,
THERE'S
A BASIC DECENT, GENEROUS
ELEMENT IN HUMAN NATURE
THAT REVEALS ITSELF.
THAT SORT OF CONNECTION
IS ULTIMATELY LIKE WATER,
GOING TO LEAK THROUGH
ALL THE CRACKS
AROUND THE POLITICIANS,
AROUND GOVERNMENTS,
AND THAT, I THINK, IS THE
ONLY HOPE FOR BUILDING PEACE.
Chopra: WARS HAPPEN BECAUSE
WE MAKE THEM HAPPEN.
WHEN YOU BECOME PEACEFUL, YOU
HAVE A DIFFERENT NARRATIVE.
AND YOU BEGIN TO FEEL PEACEFUL,
YOU BEGIN TO THINK PEACEFULLY,
YOU BEGIN TO SPEAK PEACEFULLY,
YOU BEGIN TO BEHAVE PEACEFULLY,
YOU BEGIN TO SHARE
YOUR PEACE WITH OTHERS,
YOU BEGIN TO CELEBRATE
THE EXPERIENCE OF PEACE.
AND YOUR ENVIRONMENT
REFLECTS THAT.
Tutu: O LORD, MAKE ME AN
INSTRUMENT OF YOUR PEACE.
WHERE THERE IS HATRED,
LET ME SO LOVE.
WHERE THERE IS INJURY, PARDON.
WHERE THERE IS DOUBT, FAITH.
WHERE THERE IS DESPAIR, HOPE.
WHERE THERE IS
DARKNESS, LIGHT.
WHERE THERE IS SADNESS, JOY.
FOR IT IS IN GIVING
THAT WE RECEIVE.
IT IS IN PARDONING
THAT WE ARE PARDONED.
IT IS IN DYING THAT WE ARE
BORN TO ETERNAL LIFE. AMEN.
Lewine-Boskovich: IN MY YOUNGER
DAYS, I WAS THE MOTHER LION--
LOVE OF ISRAEL AND LOVE
OF THE JEWISH PEOPLE.
THE FACT THAT IT WAS GOING
TO BE AT THE EXPENSE OF ARABS
DIDN'T MAKE ONE
BIT OF DIFFERENCE
BECAUSE JEWISH PEOPLE
WERE IN DISTRESS.
BUT I THEN BECAME A MOTHER,
AND THAT WAS THE
TRANSFORMATION FOR ME.
WHEN MY DAUGHTER
ALEXANDRA WAS BORN,
I COULD NO LONGER JUSTIFY THAT
THERE WOULD BE A CORRECTION
OR THAT ANYTHING
WOULD MOVE FORWARD
IF IT MEANT THE DISCOMFORT OR
PAIN OF ANOTHER MOTHER'S CHILD.
I HAVE TO FIND SOLUTIONS
IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
[SPEAKING NATIVE LANGUAGE]
Narrator: MELISSE
LEWINE-BOSKOVICH
BUILDS RELATIONSHIPS
BETWEEN YOUNG ISRAELIS
AND PALESTINIANS THROUGH
THE USE OF ART AND THEATER.
Lewine-Boskovich: PEACE CHILD
ISRAEL STARTED WHEN RELATIONS
BETWEEN ARABS AND
JEWS IN THE COUNTRY
WERE NOT IN A GOOD PLACE,
AND WE NEED TO HEAL.
HEALING, BASICALLY HEALING IS
THE WORK THAT HAS TO BE DONE.
DESPITE THE FACT THAT
IT'S CONSIDERED A STIGMA
BY THE MAJORITY
OF THE POPULATION
AND THE SCHOOL POPULATION,
THERE ARE SOME HEROES,
AND THESE KIDS SAID,
WE'RE WILLING TO TALK.
[SPEAKING NATIVE LANGUAGE]
HOW MANY JEWS ARE IN THE ROOM?
AND HOW MANY CHRISTIAN ARABS?
AND MUSLIM ARABS?
OK. SO, UM...
WHAT DOES RELIGION,
EACH HIS OWN RELIGION,
TEACH US ABOUT PEACE
OR COEXISTENCE OR
RECONCILIATION?
Girl: MOST OF MY FRIENDS
DON'T KNOW ARABS.
THEY KNOW ARABS JUST FROM
TV OR SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
SO THEY DON'T LIKE ARABS.
IN THE GROUP, I
MET ARAB PEOPLE.
THEY ARE MY FRIENDS NOW.
THEY JUST HAVE A
DIFFERENT RELIGION
AND DIFFERENT CULTURE,
Girl: AND WE HAVE
SHARED THINGS TOGETHER.
I MEAN, WE THINK
IN THE SAME WAY.
WE DO EVERYTHING THE SAME.
IF EVERYBODY WILL DO
JUST A LITTLE BIT,
IT CAN MAKE BIG CHANGE.
THAT'S THE RECIPE
FOR PEACE, I THINK.
Lewine-Boskovich: FOR
RELIGION TO MAKE AN IMPACT
ON THE WORK THAT WE'RE DOING,
WE NEED TO FIND SOME HEROES
WHO SOMEHOW CAN
DECIDE FOR THEMSELVES
THAT THE RELIGION
NEEDS TO BE USED
AS A HEALING FACTOR INSTEAD
OF A SEPARATING ONE.
[APPLAUSE]
I HAVE HOPE THAT
CHANGE IS POSSIBLE,
BECAUSE I SEE IT
ACTUALLY HAPPENING
THERE IS NO OPTION THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO GO INTO ADULTHOOD
THINKING THAT THE OTHER
SIDE IS A MONSTER.
WE CAN, IN FACT, LIVE TOGETHER.
WE'RE ALL HUMAN BEINGS.
THAT'S THE BOTTOM LINE.
[APPLAUSE AND CHEERING]
Narrator: IN 2005, NOAH
AND MELISSE JOINED FORCES
AT A CONCERT TO PROMOTE PEACE
BETWEEN ISRAEL AND PALESTINE.
Lewine-Boskovich: I'M
MELISSE. I'M FROM ISRAEL.
AND IT'S A VERY, VERY
SPECIAL DAY FOR US,
FOR ME TO BE ON THE SAME STAGE
WITH NOAH SALAMEH, MY FRIEND,
BECAUSE WHERE WE COME
FROM, WE CANNOT MEET.
HE NEEDS PERMITS
FROM 2 GOVERNMENTS,
OR I NEED AN ARMORED TANK
TO TAKE ME TO VISIT HIM.
SO THANK YOU HERE FOR
BRINGING US TOGETHER.
THANK YOU FOR HELPING US.
[APPLAUSE AND CHEERING]
Salameh: THANK YOU.
I AM NOAH SALAMEH FROM
BETHLEHEM, PALESTINE.
THE REPUTATION OF OUR AREA,
THAT IT IS A LONG CONFLICT
AND A LOT OF VIOLENCE.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO PEOPLE
WORKING FOR PEACE.
[APPLAUSE AND CHEERING]
GOD CREATED US
TO LIVE IN PEACE,
AND HE PLANTED PEACE INSIDE US.
JUST WE HAVE TO FIND IT
AND TO LIVE IT WITH OTHERS.
AND I HOPE THAT THE
MIDDLE EAST ONE DAY
WILL BE LIKE A GARDEN FOR PEACE.
Armstrong: ALL THE GREAT
WORLD RELIGIONS TEACH US
THAT THE LACK OF SELF
IS NOT ONLY THE TEST
OF THE RELIGIOUS LIFE,
IT ALSO INTRODUCES US TO
WHAT IS BEING CALLED GOD,
NIRVANA, OR THE SACRED,
WHEN YOU DETHRONE YOURSELF
FROM THE CENTER OF YOUR WORLD
AND PUT ANOTHER THERE.
IT REQUIRES US TO LOOK
INTO THAT SELFISHNESS
THAT MAKES US
ENVY OTHER PEOPLE,
THAT MAKES US PROMOTE OURSELVES
AT THE EXPENSE OF OTHERS.
Bond: AND SO THEREFORE
WE TURN TO GOD AS A
SOURCE FOR RENEWING
OUR COMPASSION IN THE WORLD
SO THAT WE MIGHT MANIFEST
A DIMENSION OF GOD'S
COMPASSION THROUGH OUR LIVES.
IT'S ACTUALLY A CHANGE
IN CONSCIOUSNESS.
IT...IT'S A SHIFT THAT SAYS
THE PERSON THAT I DON'T KNOW
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD
IS INTIMATELY WOVEN INTO
THE QUALITY OF MY LIFE.
Sadhguru: SOME TIME AGO,
I MET A RICKSHAW PULLER,
WHO PEDALS AND TAKES PEOPLE
AROUND, AND THAT'S HIS LIVING.
MAYBE IN A DAY HE
EARNS 25 RUPEES.
25 RUPEES WOULD
BE ABOUT 55 CENTS.
A DOLLAR HE MAY
EARN AT THE MOST.
AND IN THAT PARTICULAR CITY,
THEY DECIDED TO BRING
IN MOTORIZED RICKSHAWS,
AND A LOT OF THEM
WERE COMING SHORTLY,
AND HE ALSO KNEW,
AND HE HAS NO MEANS
TO BUY A MOTORIZED RICKSHAW
NOR IS HE LICENSED
TO DRIVE HIS OLD,
AND THIS WAS HIS
FATHER'S RICKSHAW.
HIS FATHER WAS ALSO
DOING THE SAME THING,
AND HE IS DOING THE SAME THING
SO I ASKED HIM, I SAID THESE
MOTORIZED RICKSHAWS ARE COMING,
AND THE ROADS ARE
GETTING BIGGER,
AND THEY'RE GOING TO BAN
THESE CYCLE RICKSHAWS
BECAUSE THEY'RE A BARRIER TO
THE FASTER MOVEMENT OF TRAFFIC.
SO YOUR LIVELIHOOD
IS GOING TO GO AWAY.
ARE YOU CONCERNED?
WHAT IS IT THAT YOU'RE
THINKING OF DOING?
HE SAID, YES, I AM DEFINITELY
CONCERNED ABOUT MY LIFE,
MY WIFE, MY CHILDREN,
BUT I THINK IT'S GOING
TO BE GOOD TO PEOPLE.
I THINK THE PEOPLE
WILL BE BETTER OFF
WITH A FASTER
MODE OF TRANSPORT
AND EVERYTHING
BETTER IN THE TOWN.
HIS OWN LIVELIHOOD
IS BEING THREATENED.
HE DOESN'T KNOW WHAT
ELSE TO DO WITH HIS LIFE.
THIS IS ALL HE KNOWS.
NOW HIS LIFE IS
BEING THREATENED,
BUT HE'S THINKING IN TERMS OF
IT'S GOING TO BE GOOD
TO EVERYBODY ELSE.
THAT IS REALLY LOVE
FOR OTHER PEOPLE.
Narrator: ALL THE RELIGIONS
OF THE WORLD TEACH US,
EVEN COMMAND US, TO TAKE
CARE OF ONE ANOTHER,
TO FEED THE HUNGRY,
CARE FOR THE SICK,
AND LIFT UP THE POOR.
Marshall: WE HAVE A CHANCE
THAT NO GENERATION
HAS EVER HAD,
TO CREATE A WORLD WHERE
EVERY MAN, WOMAN, AND CHILD
HAS THE OPPORTUNITY
TO LEAD A DECENT LIFE.
BUT WE ARE VERY FAR FROM THAT.
YOU HAVE THIS VERY
SMALL POPULATION,
10% OF THE WORLD'S POPULATION
THAT CONSUMES SOMETHING LIKE
70%, 80% OF THE WORLD'S
NATURAL RESOURCES.
WELL, YOU DON'T HAVE
TO BE RELIGIOUS TO KNOW
THAT THERE'S SOMETHING
WRONG WITH THAT PICTURE.
[SPEAKING NATIVE LANGUAGE]
Translator: THE WILL OF GOD
IS THAT ALL OF HIS CREATURES
ENJOY THE BENEFITS
OF DIGNITY AND LIFE.
Caldwell: WE HAVE SO
MUCH WEALTH AT OUR HANDS.
WE HAVE MORE THAN ENOUGH
TO DO WHAT WE NEED TO DO TO
FEED AND CLOTHE AND HOUSE
THE POPULATION ON THIS PLANET.
AND THAT HAS GOT TO BE A
PREREQUISITE TO THE PEACE
THAT WE ALL CLAIM WE ASPIRE TO.
Lord Carey: IF I
SAY TO SOMEONE,
WELL, WHY DO YOU SAY
YOU'RE A CHRISTIAN?
WELL, I GO TO ST. MARK'S
CHURCH BURNHAM-ON-SEA.
THAT DOESN'T MAKE
YOU A CHRISTIAN
ANY MORE THAN, YOU KNOW, IF
YOU WERE BORN IN A GARAGE
MAKES YOU A CAR.
IT'S WHAT YOU DO WITH YOUR LIFE.
IT'S PUTTING YOUR FAITH TO WORK.
Marshall: THE RELIGIOUS
INSTITUTIONS,
EVERY TRADITION
THAT YOU CAN LOOK AT
HAS A DEEP PREOCCUPATION
WITH POVERTY AND MISERY
AND A COMPELLING MISSION
TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
Bond: WHEN PEOPLE EXPERIENCE
GOD, THEY FIND THEMSELVES.
THEY FEEL NOT
ONLY FULLY ALIVE,
THEY FEEL FULLY THEMSELVES,
BUT AT THE SAME TIME,
THAT DISCOVERY TAKES
THEM BEYOND THEMSELVES.
AND SO IT'S NOT SO MUCH THAT
THEY WANT TO HELP OTHER PEOPLE.
THEY HAVE TO.
OH, YOU'RE SO NICE.
BECAUSE THE SACREDNESS OF
GOD IS IN EVERY HUMAN BEING,
AND THERE'S NOTHING WE
CAN DO TO REMOVE THAT.
Habash: WE HAVE TO REALLY
START TRANSLATING FAITH
AND SPIRITUALITY AND RELIGION
INTO PRACTICAL ACTIONS.
WE CANNOT CONTINUE
PRAYING TO GOD
AND THEN NOT DOING ANYTHING.
Vahedi: IF I TRY TO PUT INTO
PRACTICE WHAT I BELIEVE,
THAT IS GOING TO BRING
ABOUT A POSITIVE CHANGE,
MAKE THIS WORLD
A BETTER WORLD,
NO MATTER WHERE I AM,
AND I THINK THAT IS
THE GREATEST THING THAT
CAN HAPPEN IN OUR LIFE,
AND IT IS HAPPENING IN THE
LIFE OF SO MANY PEOPLE.
Narrator: FATHER
KIERAN CREAGH,
A MISSIONARY PRIEST
FROM NORTHERN IRELAND,
MINISTERS TO THE PEOPLE OF
ATTERIDGEVILLE, SOUTH AFRICA.
IT WAS THERE HE FIRST
SAW THE HARSH REALITY
OF THE A.I.D.S. EPIDEMIC
AND FELT COMPELLED TO ACT.
Creagh: I WAS
WORKING AS A PRIEST
HERE IN THE TOWNSHIP AT
ATTERIDGEVILLE FOR A FEW YEARS.
AND AS A PRIEST,
YOU'D BE CALLED OUT
WHEN PEOPLE WOULD
BE AT THEIR WORST,
WHEN THE DOCTORS
COULD DO NO MORE,
THE SANGOMAS COULD DO NO
MORE THAN MAYBE TO SAY,
WELL, AT LEAST CALL THE
PRIEST TO DO THE LAST PRAYERS
OR MAYBE A BIT OF HEALING.
AND ONE DAY I WAS CALLED
OUT TO A GUY CALLED RONALD,
A 50-YEAR-OLD MAN, AND
I WAS JUST APPALLED
AT THE CONDITION HE WAS IN.
HE WAS DYING OF A.I.D.S.,
AND HIS WIFE WAS
THE ONLY ONE ABLE
TO LOOK AFTER HIM,
AND SHE ALSO HAD A.I.D.S.,
AND THEY HAD NO RUNNING
WATER, NO ELECTRICITY,
AND THE HEAT AND THE SMELL
IN THE SHACK WAS DREADFUL.
AND I JUST THOUGHT,
WHERE'S MOTHER TERESA
WHEN YOU NEED HER?
SHE SHOULD BE HERE.
OR SOMEBODY SHOULD BE HERE.
SOMEBODY NEEDS TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THIS.
AND I JUST GOT A
VOICE BACK SAYING,
WELL, YOU DO
SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
SO I DECIDED, WELL,
MAYBE THAT'S A CALL
THAT I NEED TO ANSWER.
AND I THOUGHT, WELL,
LET'S TRY IT OUT.
WE OPENED OUR DOORS ON
THE FIRST OF JULY, 2004.
AND SINCE THEN, WE'VE
TAKEN IN 306 PATIENTS,
MAINLY H.I.V. AND A.I.D.S.
RELATED ILLNESSES.
THE NAME OF OUR HOSPICE
IS CALLED LERATONG,
AND LERATONG IS A
SESOTHO WORD THAT MEANS
THE PLACE OF LOVE.
MY BELIEF IS THAT GOD IS LOVE,
SO THIS IS THE PLACE OF GOD.
YOU'RE DOING WELL?
AND THAT'S WHAT I WANT
PEOPLE TO EXPERIENCE.
I MEAN, THEY COME HERE, THEY
COME TO A SPIRITUAL PLACE,
A GOOD PLACE, A LOVING PLACE.
OK.
[SPEAKING NATIVE LANGUAGE]
I LOVE YOU, TOO. HA HA HA!
HELLO. WHAT KIND OF
PLACE IS THIS WITH CAKE?
WHERE PEOPLE COME TOGETHER,
THAT'S WHERE GOD IS.
OK, LISTEN, ENJOY YOUR CAKE.
I'LL SEE YOU LATER ON.
THANK YOU.
Narrator: IN 2003,
FATHER CREAGH WAS
THE FIRST PERSON IN AFRICA
TO BE INJECTED WITH
THE A.I.D.S. VACCINE.
Creagh: I HAVE BEEN WORKING
WITH THE YOUNG PEOPLE HERE
IN THE TOWNSHIP TO HELP THEM
CHANGE THEIR BEHAVIORS,
TO GET THEM TO STOP
SLEEPING AROUND
OR TO HAVING SEX BEFORE MARRIAGE
SO THEY WOULDN'T
BE GETTING A.I.D.S.
FOR SOME REASON, THE MESSAGE
WASN'T GETTING THROUGH.
SO I THOUGHT, WELL, IF IT
MAKES SOME PEOPLE THINK,
WELL, IF THAT
CHAP CAN DO THAT,
THEN MAYBE I CAN ABSTAIN,
OR I CAN CHANGE MY BEHAVIOR.
IF THIS WILL STOP PEOPLE FROM
GETTING H.I.V. AND A.I.D.S.,
THEN IT'S A GOOD THING TO DO.
I THINK GOD IS GREATER AND
BIGGER AND MORE WONDERFUL
AND MORE FANTASTIC THAN
ANY OF US WILL EVER KNOW.
I THINK SOMETIMES
RELIGIOUS PRACTICE
CAN GET IN THE WAY.
PEOPLE WILL TELL
YOU HOW TO FIND GOD
OR WHAT YOU HAVE
TO DO TO GET GOD.
IT'S LIKE YOU HAVE TO WIN GOD.
RELIGIOUS PRACTICE IS GREAT IF
IT'S DONE FROM A GOOD HEART.
BUT ANYTHING ELSE, ANY LESS,
IS JUST LIKE ST. PAUL SAYS,
A BOOM CLASHING,
A GONG BANGING.
IT'S NO PROBLEM?
I NEVER FIND GOD IN A CHURCH.
IN OUR LANGUAGE, IN
THE IRISH LANGUAGE,
THE WORD FOR A CHURCH IS
TEACH AN PHOBAIL,
WHICH TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH
MEANS HOUSE OF THE PEOPLE.
AND IN CELTIC SPIRITUALITY,
THAT'S WHAT WE BELIEVE--
THAT GOD DOESN'T NEED A HOUSE.
GOD IS EVERYWHERE. HE'S
IN THE AIR WE BREATHE.
IT'S LIKE THE PRAYER
OF ST. PATRICK.
YOU KNOW, CHRIST BESIDE
ME, CHRIST ABOVE ME,
CHRIST BELOW ME,
CHRIST AROUND ME.
IF CHRIST IS YOUR
SAVIOR AND YOUR REDEEMER
AND IF YOU CAN SEE CHRIST
IN EACH AND EVERY PERSON,
THAT WOULD BE A
LOVELY WAY TO LIVE.
Narrator: IN FEBRUARY 2007,
8 MEN BROKE INTO
LERATONG HOSPICE,
SHOT FATHER CREAGH TWICE,
AND LEFT HIM FOR DEAD.
THE CALLOUS VIOLENCE
OF THE ROBBERS
STUNNED HIM AND SHOOK HIS FAITH.
BUT HE CHOSE NOT TO
SURRENDER TO HATRED.
HE RETURNED TO LERATONG
AND CONTINUES HIS WORK.
SOMETIMES YOU GET SO
ANGRY AT THE INJUSTICE,
THAT YOU START BECOMING
WHAT YOU'RE FIGHTING.
THAT'S WHEN YOU NEED YOUR FAITH.
YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE SOMETHING
THAT'S DEEPER THAN YOUR ISSUE
OR YOUR CAUSE OR YOUR
CAREER OR YOUR ENEMY
THAT YOU COME BACK TO.
[CHOIR SINGING]
Armstrong: IN EVERY CASE,
RELIGION ISSUES A COMMAND--
BE BETTER, BE MORE HUMANE,
BE MORE KIND, BE MORE JUST.
RELIGIOUS TRUTH IS
A SUMMONS TO ACTION.
AS THE BUDDHA PUT IT, ONCE A
MAN HAS ACHIEVED ENLIGHTENMENT,
HE MUST COME DOWN
FROM THE MOUNTAINTOP
AND RETURN TO THE MARKETPLACE
AND THERE PRACTICE COMPASSION
FOR ALL LIVING BEINGS.
SO INHERENT IN
RELIGION AT ITS BEST
IS A COMMITMENT TO
DOING GOOD IN THE WORLD.
EACH HUMAN BEING HAS A SENSE
THAT THERE ARE
THINGS THAT ARE RIGHT
AND THERE ARE THINGS
THAT ARE WRONG.
Rauf: WE ALL HAVE
A SENSE OF DECENCY,
A SENSE OF JUSTICE,
A SENSE OF RIGHTNESS,
OF HOW PEOPLE WANT
TO BE TREATED,
OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS
AND THE HUMAN DIGNITY
OF EVERY HUMAN BEING.
THIS IS ALL THAT EVERYBODY
IN THE WORLD WANTS.
Chopra: WHEN WE GO
BEYOND RACISM AND BIGOTRY
AND HATRED AND PREJUDICE
AND NARROW NATIONALISM,
THESE ARE THE WAYS
TO HEAL OURSELVES.
Armstrong: THE CHALLENGE
TODAY IS FOR US TO IMPLEMENT
THIS GLOBALLY SO WE
TREAT OTHER NATIONS
AS WE WOULD WISH TO
BE TREATED OURSELVES.
ALL OF HUMANITY NOW
IS BEING CHALLENGED
TO TAKE A KIND OF
QUANTUM LEAP FORWARD
INTO A NEW WAY OF THINKING.
AND FROM THAT OTHER
WAY OF THINKING
AND THE IMPERATIVE, THE MORAL
IMPERATIVE OF OUR GENERATION
IS TO TURN THE SHIP OF
HUMAN HISTORY AROUND
RADICALLY AND QUICKLY.
Tutu: GOD SAYS, O
MY DEAR CHILDREN,
WHEN ARE YOU GOING
TO LEARN TO APPRECIATE,
IN FACT, TO CELEBRATE
YOUR DIVERSITY?
Rosen: IF YOU LOOK
AT THE QUR'AN,
IT HAS A VERY IMPORTANT TEXT,
AND IT SAYS, O HUMANKIND,
WE HAVE CREATED YOU FROM
ONE PAIR, A MAN AND A WOMAN,
AND MADE YOU INTO
TRIBES AND NATIONS
SO THAT YOU MAY
KNOW ONE ANOTHER.
Tutu: YOU HAVE GIFTS
THAT I DO NOT HAVE,
AND I HAVE GIFTS
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE.
AND YOU CAN ALMOST IMAGINE
GOD RUBBING GOD'S HANDS
AND SAYING, VOILA!
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT I
WANTED YOU TO KNOW!
Dalai Lama: SO THEREFORE,
ACCORDING TO THE NEW REALITY,
WE HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE WHOLE WORLD LIKE
ONE ENTITY, ONE BODY.
RESTLESS TONIGHT 'CAUSE
I WASTED THE LIGHT
BETWEEN BOTH THESE TIMES
I DREW A REALLY THIN LINE
IT'S NOTHING I PLANNED
AND NOT THAT I CAN
BUT YOU SHOULD BE MINE
ACROSS THAT LINE
IF I TRADED IT ALL
IF I GAVE IT ALL
AWAY FOR ONE THING
JUST FOR ONE THING
IF I SORTED IT OUT
IF I KNEW ALL ABOUT
THIS ONE THING
WOULDN'T THAT BE SOMETHING?
I PROMISE I MIGHT
NOT WALK ON BY
MAYBE NEXT TIME
BUT NOT THIS TIME
EVEN THOUGH I KNOW
I DON'T WANT TO KNOW
YEAH, I GUESS I KNOW
I JUST HATE HOW IT SOUNDS
IF I TRADED IT ALL
IF I GAVE IT ALL
AWAY FOR ONE THING
JUST FOR ONE THING
IF I SORTED IT OUT,
IF I KNEW ALL ABOUT
THIS ONE THING
WOULDN'T THAT BE SOMETHING?
IF I TRADED IT ALL
IF I GAVE IT ALL
AWAY FOR ONE THING
JUST FOR ONE THING
IF I SORTED IT OUT
IF I KNEW ALL ABOUT
THIS ONE THING
WOULDN'T THAT BE SOMETHING?
EVEN THOUGH I KNOW
I DON'T WANT TO KNOW
YEAH, I GUESS I KNOW
I JUST HATE HOW IT SOUNDS
EVEN THOUGH I KNOW
I DON'T WANT TO KNOW
YEAH, I GUESS I KNOW
I JUST HATE HOW IT SOUNDS